# Spain Electricity Shortfall Case-Study: Utilizing Machine Learning (AI) for Daily Shortfall Predictions

# Context
The government of Spain is actively exploring opportunities to expand its renewable energy infrastructure investments. To ensure successful implementation, it is vital to have precise forecasts of energy shortfalls. This project is specifically designed to meet this requirement by conducting a comprehensive analysis of Spain's renewable energy sources and fossil fuel energy generation. By delving into the data and uncovering meaningful patterns, we aim to generate valuable insights and accurate predictions. These insights will serve as a solid foundation for making well-informed decisions that drive the progress of the renewable energy sector in Spain.

# Dataset
This dataset contains information about the weather conditions in various Spanish cities for the time of 2015-2017. The dataset also has information about the three hourly load shortfalls for the same period. In the context of this problem, the three hourly load shortfall is the difference between the energy generated by means of fossil fuels and renewable sources.The dataset contains 47 features and 1 target. The features include the time and the city-specific weather variables

# Expected Outcomes
- EDA- Data analysed, and thoroughly understood.
- Preprocessing- Data cleaned and relevant features added, or existing features augmented.
- Modelling- Various ML models trained and optimised.
- Validation- Best model thoroughly discussed and used to generate Kaggle submission.

# Tools used
- Python
  - Pandas
  - SKLearn
  - NumPy

- Amazon Web Services EC2
- Flask ( Application Programming Interface API)

# Output

